Review of Chatfuel Bot Creation Tool
====================================

Chatfuel is a tool for creating chatbots for Facebook Messenger with
an intuitive and easy-to-use web interface. It is perfect if you need
to create a bot with no technical knowledge and if your bot doesn't
need any sophisticated abilities or logic.

Bots are created by editing "blocks", which are lists of steps that
the bot carries out in sequence. You can add buttons to allow the user
to quickly respond to your message. Allowing this type of interaction
is really important to increase engagement for Messenger bots. You can
specify a new block to be activated when a user clicks on a
button. This allows you to build a tree of possibilities that the user
can explore by clicking different possibilities (rather like the
_Choose Your Own Adventure_ books I used to read as a kid). This is
good for informational applications, like customer support, or FAQ.

Although very easy to use for creating simple bots, one thing to bear
in mind is that if you have quite a complex possibility tree, then
viewing and navigating the possibilities can quickly become unwieldy.

Chatfuel has some nice features that is very handy for simple
promotional bots. It is easy to set up sequences of prompts that
are sent to the user, for example, the default setup has messages that
are sent after twenty minutes, one day and two days. This type of
behaviour is really useful for keeping users engaged with the bot. It
also makes it easy to add images, or galleries to liven up the
interaction. You can even make it look like the bot is typing for a
specified period of time, which makes the interaction seem more
natural.

The AI capabilities of Chatfuel are unfortunately limited to simple
matching of strings: there is no ability to parse users' queries into
intents, as found in more sophisticated platforms. You can specify a
list of responses, to be chosen either in sequence or at random, or
trigger a block to be started when a match is found. The default bot
comes with some rules set up, for example, if the user says something
like "thank you", "ty" or "thnx" it replies with a random choice of
"It's my pleasure to help" or "Sure thing."

Chatfuel has a nice testing feature that allows you to try it out on
Messenger without having to deploy it. This makes it much easier to
check that your bot is working properly before it goes live.

Chatfuel is priced on a sliding scale based on the number of
"reachable users". These are users that have interacted with the bot
and not deleted it, so it is possible to send them a message. Here are
some sample price points:

 - Up to 1,000 users costs $30
 - Up to 2,000 users costs $60
 - Up to 10,000 users costs $275
 - Up to 30,000 users costs $775
 
It is worth bearing in mind that if your bot turns out to be popular,
the cost could grow significantly with time. By default Chatfuel is
free, which means you have to display a "Powered by Chatfuel"
attribution in the bot's persistent menu, probably not something you
would want in a bot used for professional purposes.

Summary (scores out of 5):

 - Platforms: Messenger only
 - Ease of use: 4
 - Intelligence potential: 2
 - Value for money: 4


