Review of Flow XO Chatbot Creator
=================================

Flow XO is a weird one. It's like it's been designed by a programmer
that thinks that designing bots is just like programming. Because it
seems to be kind of a graphical programming language. This makes it
somewhat powerful, but extremely unwieldy if you want to handle
complex situations robustly.

The first thing you'll notice about it are it's flat design and bright
colours. After signing up, it takes you through a somewhat helpful
tutorial that tells you where all the bits are. Conceptually though,
you're left somewhat none the wiser, as there's not really much
instruction as to how you think about building a bot in Flow XO. The
basic idea is that you define "flows" that describe sequences of
possible conversation. For example, I might start by greeting someone
with "Welcome to the Eatalot restaurant! What would you like to eat?"
The user's response can then be stored in an "attribute" (for
programmers, a variable), and can be retrieved later on. Conditions
can be applied to the sequence which could (for example) look at the
value of an attribute set earlier. These filters provide the ability
to build up complex logical expressions depending on these values.

My issue with this interface is that the designers have thought up a
way by which you _could_ build a bot, and encased it in an elegant
user interface. However it's not a way that I personally would ever
_want_ to build a bot. It would take forever to get anything that
worked vaguely reliably, and I would effectively be programming using
a graphical user interface. If I wanted to program, I would use a
programming language.

Flow XO has the following pricing structure:

 - The free plan allows up to 500 interactions, 5 bots, 2 weeks of
   logs and includes support.
 - The standard plan at $19 a month allows up to 5,000 interactions,
   15 bots, 3 months of logs and priority support.
 - An additional 5 bots can be added for $10 a month and an additional
   25,000 interactions can be added for $25 a month

Summary:

 - Platforms: Messenger, Slack, Telegram, Twilio SMS and Web
 - Ease of use: 3
 - Intelligence potential: 4
 - Value for money: 3
